1. Objectives
Write a program that geocodes NM addresses using Google’s geocoding API

2. Project summary
I was not happy with any of the online geocoders.  They work great, but they lack flexibility for incorporating geocoding issues that are specific to New Mexico.  For example, it is often possible to geocode to census tract, small area, and/or county level simply by knowing the zip code, because some zips are contained entirely within those geographic units.  Also, a surprisingly common problem is that people enter the wrong city in their address, misspell things, etc.  And finally, if one address is too misspelled to be geocoded, we may be able to match it to an address that was geocoded.  

These functionalities are missing from online geocoders, so I wrote my own.  I made it modular so new functions can easily be incorporated, and it uses Google’s.  It is also cheaper than other software and services I looked at.  It is free up to 2500 request/day.  If billing is enabled, it will run faster and would cost $0.50 per 1000 requests above 2500/day.  So 10,000 requests = $3.75, 100,000 requests = $48.75, etc.  Without an account, 1000 requests takes a little over 12 minutes.

3. Project status
As of 01/04/17, the program has been written.  It takes a list of addresses (formatted as follows), and outputs geocoded locations to the extent possible.  Specifically, it:

(1) separates addresses into street addresses and PO Boxes
(2) attempts to geocode the street addresses
(3) for addresses that are not geocoded, ensures that the zip matches the city (people entering the wrong city is one of the most frequent and easily corrected errors).  If original city does not match zip, geocoding is reattempted with correct city.
(4) For all successful geocoded addresses, assigns them to the appropriate census tract, county, zip, city, doh health region, and NM small area.
(5) For all unsuccessfully geocoded addresses, each location is assigned (based on zip) to the appropriate tract/county/zip/etc, to the extent possible.  Some zips are entirely contained within a census tract, small area, county, etc.  So in these  cases, it is possible to assign some geographic specificity to the location,  assuming that the zip code is entered correctly
(6) Outputs fully and partially geocoded addresses
(7) Quantify address similarity to see if any non-geocoded addresses are good matches to any geocoded addresses

Address input file basic format:
street        	city        state  	zip	  address
123 Any St   	SANTA FE    	NM    	87505	123 Any St Santa Fe NM 87505
